Data : 
1.Data means person name, age , address, bank balance, school details, statistics
2.Also data can be any form like image, video, text, document
3.this data can be stored in a container. That container is called DB
4.if data is stored in db anyone can easily access, modified, protected, analysed
5.DBMS is a software used to manage the database. Need DBMS to interactive with database to store modify, retrieve and protect the data
6. DBMS is a software (get the data from db)
popular dbms are :
mysql, 2.postgre sql, Microsoft sql server, oracle db, sql lite,
mongodb, redis,cassandra



1.amazon website/flipcart website wont be down at any time
2.it runs 365 days 24/7
3.govt portals are down

m - meta
a - antropic
a - apple
n - Netflix
g - google
o - open ai these servers very rare you see the downtime

1. when i login into flipcart.com it touches to backend
2.in real time it touches to the production server
3.when production server down flipcart dont run
4.in your organization every client has own app.
5.some developer change the code. The code script is there 
6.Do not touch production server, if 2m server is down 2 million business is down
7.if any updates, issues happened in ps they will stop the code then the website is down
8.in an organization few employees touch the ps .they are expertise
9.They will clone the duplicate data . The duplicate data is called application server
10.in organization you dont get access for ps
11.in application server they build code, app and test. If any error happens in application server the website is safe
12.You build ml models in application server. The code is completed. That code should be visible in app
13.whatever the code you done in AS should be paste in PS, then the code is visible in app so this process is called deployment

what are the challenges you face while you doing from AP TO PS deployment process :
1.Firewall issues
2.Bigdata

BIG BILLION DAY / COUNTRY WISE
1.ALL users hits the DB At a time 
2.they introduce a scaling concepts horizontal/vertical scaling called as Hadoop
3.All these comes under system design
4.AI system design (forward deployed ai engineers)

DBeaver download the community edition :
1.go to plugin select sql lite
2.in path browse to your .db file
3.click test connection
4.click finish

https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/603/in+vehicle+coupon+recommendation(client business)
client bussiness stored in db end to end
export the whole data into csv file

select * from data_set1












